This is the Ice Fjord of Ilulissat.
Miles upstream,
behind millions of tons of floating ice, is the Jakobshavn Glacier.
And if the Greenland ice cap melts,
a large part of the water will come down on this side.
But a glacier is not a fixed object,
it is not a monolithic ice block that melts steadily.
Glaciers are flowing.
It's a counter-intuitive concept,
because most people are accustomed to ice in the form of frozen lakes,
where the ice goes nowhere.
And let's be honest, this does not seem to move.
But glaciers are not constant: they grow in mass due to snow falling on them,
and they decrease in mass through a process called calving:
the front breaks off and forms a stream of icebergs like this.
Like a river, the glacier steams downhill.
And the Jakobshavn Glacier is one of the fastest and most productive in the world:
the end point, where the front breaks off,
can move 20 meters per day.
And remember, that does not mean the front of the ice
moves towards us at 20 meters per day, only that on average,
the front piece of the ice moves at that speed
if it breaks down and forms these icebergs.
If a glacier increases in mass, it will continue quietly,
spreading out at sea until enough falls from the front
so that he is in balance again.
And if he loses mass,
because there is not enough snow because it melts faster,
he will return quietly.
Remember, it is not ice that really goes backwards,
it still flows the same,
the only difference is that the point where the front falls off moves backwards.
He still produces icebergs.
And the Jakobshavn glacier there?
He makes a lot of icebergs.
There is a reasonable chance that the person who caused the sinking of the Titanic came from there.
Now I do not want to contradict climate change.
Some very shrewd people in the reactions will probably do that
so I say this: yes, the evidence is unclear.
From 1960 to 2000 the front of the glacier has hardly changed -
And in ten years, he has moved back about the same distance
that he had shifted throughout the 20th century.
But climate change is about habits, not events,
and if you still do not believe the great mountain of evidence,
then someone without geography titles who speaks to a camera at the North Pole will
you can not convince either.
And part of the reason is that it is difficult
to convey the scale of all this here.
You can not show the camera.
Even standing here in person,
refuse to accept my brain how gigantic everything is here.
And we can only see the 10, 20% that is above water of this one.
Some glaciers make blocks of ice as big as literally all of Manhattan.
And yes, they will break off, yes,
they will end up as something we are more used to,
but like many of the processes on our planet,
this is on a scale that is almost unthinkable for people.
It is no wonder that the details of climate change are so difficult to understand:
I stand here, looking at the ice that flows slowly,
and still I can not process it completely.
I am here with Chris Hadfield's Generator Arctic, and they too!
-Hey!
This is Elmo Keep, she writes great profiles
about a few of the people we meet here.
Follow her on Twitter to see when they will be published.
- Bye!